Hurricane Island is a small Island that is located on the Fox Island archipelago in the Penobscot Bay, Maine. It is around 12 miles away from the Rockland, which is the nearest mainland port city. The total area of the island is 125 acres. Through-out many years the island has changed its concentration. Starting as a granite quarrying boomtown and later transforming to a Center of Science, Leadership, and Marine Research (Richardson, 1997).

The Hurricane Island Foundation is a non-profit organization whose mission is to promote science education, applied research, and leadership development through various educational programs and researches. This is a sustainable island community that focuses on experiential sciences, applied research, and sustainable leadership. Therefore, it allows many different students and scientists to participate in the various and authentic research projects. There are different level collaborators in each research project, such as high school students, undergraduate inters, graduate researchers, scientist, etc.

The Hurricane Island Center for Science and Leadership (HICSL) is a scientific and educational community that is located on Hurricane Island. HICSL provides experiential, firsthand research opportunities that concentrates on marine sciences, STEM field, ecology, citizen science, etc. One of the goals of the HICSL is to promote science and make people excited about science and their scientific discoveries as well as environmental conservation. (Science for Everyone, 2014)

There are many programs that held during the year on Hurricane Island, which unites many people and provide them with a scientific research to collaborate. However, during the off-season the staff members work with teachers and students to enhance the program for the project-based science and leadership education in the classroom format (The Hurricane Island).

 As was stated earlier, there are various research programs are taking place on Hurricane Island by Hurricane Island Foundation (HIF). For example, in June of 2013, HIF alongside various community members and local scallop fishermen organized a collaborative research. The purpose of this research is to understand how the small-scale closed areas might affect the growth and sustainability of the scallop&#39;s population. The project was initiated with Midcoast Maine scallop fishermen who decided to close a small area in order to harvest scallops for three consecutive years (Science for Everyone, 2014). This research project brought together diverse group of collaborators from both sides. Placopecten magellanicus was the type of scallop that was researched in this particular project. This is an important economic resource for Fishermen in the bays of North America. Therefore, the growth rate estimate is important information to know (Knotz, 1984). Students, scientist, and fishermen were working alongside to set specific equipment, collect data, and perform various analysis based on that data collected. Therefore, students were exposed to the real science research experience and had an opportunity perform something meaningful.

Of course, the main purpose of this research was to collect useful information about Scallops. However, it also benefits other parties, such as recruitment of students who could potentially join the scientist community and help with different sustainability issues. As stated previously, collaborators performed various research growth studies on Scallop and these all came from cooperate research with Fisherman of choice, which studied specific close area.

Fisherman closed small area in the muscle ridge to observe and understand what small closure might do for their local Scallop population. This is performed in rotational management strategy, so various places and zones are open and closed during different time. For example, one place can be closed for two years and then open for following year. In the muscle ridge closure, Spats are the scallop&#39;s specie they are researching about. In order to collect data, researches use spat bugs to catch the scallops in the platonic stage and later each of them can be marked with specific colored tag. By doing that, it helps them to obtain basic analysis and understanding the population dynamics and the idea of the recruitment for that area in the future. This successful research would identify areas that are good for settlement around, so it can be maintained better. At the same time, there are different closed areas as well, which are under the watch. Thus, the data collected from various closed areas would potentially be useful in the comparison analysis (Science for Everyone, 2014).

Hurricane Island Foundation also participates in the aqua cultural research and one of the objectives is to understand the impact of different gear types on the growth rate of scallops. Part of their research is to identify the growth data. Based on this project the island research community started to grow own scallops, so then research samples would be available to study upon. One of the methods the community used, was to put scallops in the cages and to measure them every month for the entire year. As was stated previously, each scallop was marked in advance to be able to identify them later. Therefore, this would later map to the specific which provides the growth rate. Usage of spat bags allows them to identify the future population density. For example, the spat bags are assembled in the different locations in the beginning of the research based on the results the collaborators may predict which area they should protect for the future (Science for Everyone, 2014).

 In addition, to the various studies that the community is engaged, they also provide applied research answers for the local fishing community. Based on the studies, the future events might be predicted in advance and prepare them to adopt to those changes.



Resource:

1. 1)Richardson, E. M. (1997). Hurricane Island – The Town that Disappeared. Retrieved September 25, 2018, from http://www.hurricaneisland.net/history

1. 2)The Hurricane Island. Retrieved September 25, 2018 from [http://www.hurricaneisland.net/about-us/](http://www.hurricaneisland.net/about-us/)

1. 3)&quot;Science for Everyone&quot;, (2014), HIF to coordinate a collaborative research project. Retrieved September 25, 2018, from [http://www.hurricaneisland.net/science-for-everyone/2014/2/26/scallop-project](http://www.hurricaneisland.net/science-for-everyone/2014/2/26/scallop-project)

1. 4)Krantz, D. E., Jones, D. S., &amp; Williams, D. F. (1984). Growth Rates Of The Sea Scallop, placopecten Magellanicus, Determined From The18O/16O Record In Shell Calcite. The Biological Bulletin, 167(1), 186-199. doi:10.2307/1541347
